<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 15</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XV</h2>
			<p>Sanford defeated Raleigh this year in football, and for a time the college was wild with excitement and delight. Most of the free lumber in Haydensville was burned in a triumphant bonfire, and many of the undergraduates celebrated so joyously with their winnings that they looked sadly bedraggled for several days afterward.</p>
			<p>The victory was discussed until the boys were thoroughly sick of it, and then they settled down to a normal life, studying; playing pool, billiards, and cards; going to the movies, reading a little, and holding bull sessions.</p>
			<p>Hugh attended many bull sessions. Some of them he found interesting, but many of them were merely orgies of filthy talk, the participants vying with one another in telling the dirtiest stories; and although Hugh was not a prig, he was offended by a dirty story that was told merely for the sake of its dirt. Pudge Jamieson’s stories were smutty, but they were funny, too, and he could send Hugh into paroxysms of laughter any time that he chose.</p>
			<p>One night in late November Hugh was in Gordon Ross’s room in Surrey along with four others. Ross was a senior, a quiet man with gray eyes, rather heavy features, and soft brown hair. He was considerably older than the others, having worked for several years before he came to college. He listened to the stories that were being told, occasionally smiled, but more often studied the group curiously.</p>
			<p>The talk became exceedingly nasty, and Hugh was about to leave in disgust when the discussion suddenly turned serious.</p>
			<p>“Do you know,” said George Winsor abruptly, “I wonder why we hold these smut sessions. I sit here and laugh like a fool and am ashamed of myself half the time. And this isn’t the only smut session that’s going on right now. I bet there’s thirty at least going on around the campus. Why are we always getting into little groups and covering each other with filth? College men are supposed to be gentlemen, and we talk like a lot of gutter-pups.” Winsor was a sophomore, a fine student, and thoroughly popular. He looked like an unkempt Airedale. His clothes, even when new, never looked neat, and his rusty hair refused to lie flat. He had an eager, quick way about him, and his brown eyes were very bright and lively.</p>
			<p>“Yes, that’s what I want to know,” Hugh chimed in, forgetting all about his desire to leave. “I’m always sitting in on bull sessions, but I think they re rotten. About every so often I make up my mind that I won’t take part in another one, and before I know it somebody’s telling me the latest and I’m listening for all I’m worth.”</p>
			<p>“That’s easy,” ’ Melville Burbank answered. He was a junior with a brilliant record. “You’re merely sublimating your sex instincts, that’s all. If you played around with cheap women more, you wouldn’t be thinking about sex all the time and talking smut.”</p>
			<p>“You’re crazy!” It was Keith Nutter talking, a sophomore notorious for his dissipations. “Hell, I’m out with bags all the time, as you damn well know. My sex instincts don’t need sublimating, or whatever you call it, and I talk smut as much as anybody⁠—more than some.”</p>
			<p>“Perhaps you’re just naturally dirty,” Burbank said, his voice edged with sarcasm. He didn’t like Nutter. The boy seemed gross to him.</p>
			<p>“Go to hell! I’m no dirtier than anybody else.” Nutter was not only angry but frankly hurt. “The only difference between me and the rest of you guys is that I admit that I chase around with rats, and the rest of you do it on the sly. I’m no hypocrite.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, come off, Keith,” Gordon Ross said quietly; “you’re not fair. I admit that lots of the fellows are chasing around with rats on the sly, but lots of them aren’t, too. More fellows go straight around this college than you think. I know a number that have never touched a woman. They just hate to admit they’re pure, that’s all; and you take their bluff for the real thing.”</p>
			<p>“You’ve got to show me.” Nutter was almost sullen. “I admit that I’m no angel, but I don’t believe that I’m a damn bit worse than the average. Besides, what’s wrong about it, anyhow? It’s just as natural as eating, and I don’t see where there is anything worse about it.”</p>
			<p>George Winsor stood up and leaned against the mantel. He ran his fingers through his hair until it stood grotesquely on end. “Oh, that’s the old argument. I’ve heard it debated in a hundred bull sessions. One fellow says it’s all wrong, and another fellow says it’s all right, and you never get anywhere. I want somebody to tell me what’s wrong about it and what’s right. God knows you don’t find out in your classes. They have Doc Conners give those smut talks to us in our freshman year, and a devil of a lot of good they do. A bunch of fellows faint and have to be lugged out, and the Doc gives you some sickening details about venereal diseases, and that’s as far as you get. Now, I’m all messed up about this sex business, and I’ll admit that I’m thinking about it all the time, too. Some fellows say it’s all right to have a woman, and some fellows say it’s all wrong, but I notice none of them have any use for a woman who isn’t straight.”</p>
			<p>All of the boys were sitting in easy-chairs except Donald Ferguson, who was lying on the couch and listening in silence. He was a handsome youth with Scotch blue eyes and sandy hair. Women were instantly attracted by his good looks, splendid physique, slow smile, and quiet drawl.</p>
			<p>He spoke for the first time. “The old single-standard fight,” he said, propping his head on his hand. “I don’t see any sense in scrapping about that any more. We’ve got a single standard now. The girls go just as fast as the fellows.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that’s not so,” Hugh exclaimed. “Girls don’t go as far as fellows.”</p>
			<p>Ferguson smiled pleasantly at Hugh and drawled; “Shut up, innocent; you don’t know anything about it. I tell you the old double standard has gone all to hell.”</p>
			<p>“You’re exaggerating, Don, just to get Hugh excited,” Ross said in his quiet way. “There are plenty of decent girls. Just because a lot of them pet on all occasions isn’t any reason to say that they aren’t straight. I’m older than you fellows, and I guess I’ve had a lot more experience than most of you. I’ve had to make my own way since I was a kid, and I’ve bumped up against a lot of rough customers. I worked in a lumber camp for a year, and after you’ve been with a gang like that for a while, you’ll understand the difference between them and college fellows. Those boys are bad eggs. They just haven’t any morals, that’s all. They turn into beasts every pay night; and bad as some of our college parties are, they aren’t a circumstance to a lumber town on pay night.”</p>
			<p>“That’s no argument,” George Winsor said excitedly, taking his pipe out of his mouth and gesticulating with it. “Just because a lumberjack is a beast is no reason that a college man is all right because he’s less of a beast. I tell you I get sick of my own thoughts, and I get sick of the college when I hear about some things that are done. I keep straight, and I don’t know why I do, I despise about half the fellows that chase around with rats, and sometimes I envy them like hell. Well, what’s the sense in me keeping straight? What’s the sense in anybody keeping straight? Fellows that don’t seem to get along just as well as those that do. What do you think, Mel? You’ve been reading Havelock Ellis and a lot of ducks like that.”</p>
			<p>Burbank tossed a cigarette butt into the fire and gazed into the flames for a minute before speaking, his homely face serious and troubled. “I don’t know what to think,” he replied slowly. “Ellis tells about some things that make you fairly sick. So does Forel. The human race can be awfully rotten. I’ve been thinking about it a lot, and I’m all mixed up. Sometimes life just doesn’t seem worth living to me, what with the filth and the slums and the greed and everything. I’ve been taking a course in sociology, and some of the things that Prof. Davis has been telling us make you wonder why the world goes on at all. Some poet has a line somewhere about man’s inhumanity to man, and I find myself thinking about that all the time. The world’s rotten as hell, and I don’t see how anything can be done about it. I don’t think sometimes that it’s worth living in. I can understand why people commit suicide.” He spoke softly, gazing into the fire.</p>
			<p>Hugh had given him rapt attention. Suddenly he spoke up, forgetting his resolve not to say anything more after Ferguson had called him “innocent.” “I think you’re wrong, Mel,” he said positively. “I was reading a book the other day called ‘Lavengro.’ It’s all about Gipsies. Well, this fellow Lavengro was all busted up and depressed; he’s just about made up his mind to commit suicide when he meets a friend of his, a Gipsy. He tells the Gipsy that he’s going to bump himself off, that he doesn’t see anything in life to live for. Then the Gipsy answers him. Gee, it hit me square in the eye, and I memorized it on the spot. I think I can say it. He says: ‘There’s night and day, brother, both sweet things; sun, moon, and stars, brother, all sweet things; there’s likewise a wind on the heath. Life is very sweet, brother; who would wish to die?’ I think that’s beautiful,” he added simply, “and I think it’s true, too.”</p>
			<p>“Good for you, Hugh,” Ross said quietly.</p>
			<p>Hugh blushed with pleasure, but he was taken back by Nutter’s vigorous rejoinder. “Bunk!” he exclaimed. “Hooey! The sun, moon, and stars, and all that stuff sounds pretty, but it isn’t life. Life’s earning a living, and working like hell, and women, and pleasure. The ‘Rubaiyat’ ‘s the only poem⁠—if you’re going to quote poetry. That’s the only poem I ever saw that had any sense to it.</p>
			<span>“Come, Beloved, fill the Cup that clears</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To-day of past Regrets and future Fears.</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To-morrow? Why, To-morrow I may be</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Myself with Yesterday’s seven thousand Years.</span>
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<p>You bet. You never can tell when you’re going to be bumped off, and so you might just as well have a good time while you can. You damn well don’t know what’s coming after you kick the bucket.”</p>
			<p>“Good stuff, the ‘Rubaiyat,’ ” said Ferguson lazily. He was lying on his back staring at the ceiling. “I bet I’ve read it a hundred times. When they turn down an empty glass for me, it’s going to be <i>empty</i>. I don’t know what I’m here for or where I’m going or why. ‘Into this world and why not knowing,’ and so on. My folks sent me to Sunday-school and brought me up to be a good little boy. I believed just about everything they told me until I came to college. Now I know they told me a lot of damned lies. And I’ve talked with a lot of fellows who’ve had the same experience.⁠ ⁠… Anybody got a butt?”</p>
			<p>Burbank, who was nearest to him, passed him a package of cigarettes. Ferguson extracted one, lighted it, blew smoke at the ceiling, and then quietly continued, drawling lazily: “Most fellows don’t tell their folks anything, and there’s no reason why they should, either. Our folks lie to us from the time we are babies. They lie to us about birth and God and life. My folks never told me the truth about anything. When I came to college I wasn’t very innocent about women, but I was about everything else. I believed that God made the world in six days the way the Bible says, and that some day the world was coming to an end and that we’d all be pulled up to heaven where Christ would give us the once-over. Then he’d ship some of us to hell and give the good ones harps. Well, since I’ve found out that all that’s hooey I don’t believe in much of anything.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose you are talking about evolution,” said Ross. “Well, Prof. Humbert says that evolutions hasn’t anything to do with the Bible⁠—He says that science is science and that religion is religion and that the two don’t mix. He says that he holds by evolution but that that doesn’t make Christ’s philosophy bad.”</p>
			<p>“No,” Burbank agreed, “it doesn’t make it bad; but that isn’t the point. I’ve read the Bible, which I bet is more than the rest of you can say, and I’ve read the Sermon on the Mount a dozen times. It’s darn good sense, but what good does it do? The world will never practice Christ’s philosophy. The Bible says, ‘Man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward,’ and, believe me, that’s damn true. If people would be pure and good, then Christ’s philosophy would work, but they aren’t pure and good; they aren’t made pure and good, they’re made selfish, and bad: they’re made, mind you, made full of evil and lust. I tell you it’s all wrong. I’ve been reading and reading, and the more I read the more I’m convinced that we’re all rotten⁠—and that if there is a god he made us rotten.”</p>
			<p>“You’re wrong!” They all turned toward Winsor, who was still standing by the fireplace; even Ferguson rolled over and looked at the excited boy. “You’re wrong,” he repeated, “all wrong. I admit all that’s been said about parents. They do cheat us just as Don said. I never tell my folks anything that really matters, and I don’t know any other fellows that do, either. I suppose there are some, but I don’t know them. And I admit that there is sin and vice, but I don’t admit that Christ’s philosophy is useless. I’ve read the Sermon on the Mount, too. That’s about all of the Bible that I have read, but I’ve read that; and I tell you you’re all wrong. There is enough good in man to make that philosophy practical. Why, there is more kindness and goodness around than we know about. We see the evil, and we know we have lusts and⁠—and things, but we do good, too. And Hugh was right when he talked a while ago about the beauty in the world. There’s lots of it, lots and lots of it. There’s beautiful poetry and beautiful music and beautiful scenery; and there are people who appreciate all of it. I tell you that in spite of everything life is worth living. And I believe in Christ’s philosophy, too. I don’t know whether He is the son of God or not⁠—I think that He must be⁠—but that doesn’t make any difference. Look at the wonderful influence He has had.”</p>
			<p>“Rot,” said Burbank calmly, “absolute rot. There has never been a good deed done in His name; just the Inquisition and the what-do-you-call-‘ems in Russia. Oh, yes, pogroms⁠—and wars and robbing people. Christianity is just a name; there isn’t any such thing. And most of the professional Christians that I’ve seen are damn fools. I tell you, George, it’s all wrong. We’re all in the dark, and I don’t believe the profs know any more about it than we do.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, they do,” Hugh exclaimed; “they must. Think of all the studying they’ve done.”</p>
			<p>“Bah.” Burbank was contemptuous. “They’ve read a lot of books, that’s all. Most of them never had an idea in their lives. Oh, I know that some of them think; if they didn’t, I’d leave college to-morrow. It’s men like Davis and Maxwell and Henley and Jimpson who keep me here. But most of the profs can’t do anything more than spout a few facts that they’ve got out of books. No, they don’t know any more about it than we do. We don’t know why we’re here or where we’re going or what we ought to do while we are here. And we get into groups and tell smutty stories and talk about women and religion, and we don’t know any more than when we started. Think of all the talk that goes on around this college about sex. There’s no end to it. Some of the fellows say positively there’s no sense in staying straight; and a few, damn few, admit that they think a fellow ought to leave women alone, but most of them are in a muddle.”</p>
			<p>He rose and stretched. “I’ve got to be going⁠—philosophy quiz to-morrow.” He smiled. “I don’t agree with Nutter, and I don’t agree with George, and I don’t agree with you, Don; and the worst of it is that I don’t agree with myself. You fellows can bull about this some more if you want to; I’ve got to study.”</p>
			<p>“No, they can’t,” said Ross. “Not here, anyway. I’ve got to study, too. The whole of you’ll have to get out.”</p>
			<p>The boys rose and stretched. Ferguson rolled lazily off the couch. “Well,” he said with a yawn, “this has been very edifying. I’ve heard it all before in a hundred bull sessions, and I suppose I’ll hear it all again. I don’t know why I’ve hung around. There’s a little dame that I’ve got to write a letter to, and, believe me, she’s a damn sight more interesting than all your bull.” He strolled out of the door, drawling a slow “good night” over his shoulder.</p>
			<p>Hugh went to his room and thought over the talk. He was miserably confused. Like Ferguson he had believed everything that his father and mother⁠—and the minister⁠—had told him, and he found himself beginning to discard their ideas. There didn’t seem to be any ideas to put in the place of those he discarded. Until Carl’s recent confidence he had believed firmly in chastity, but he discovered, once the first shock had worn off, that he liked Carl the unchaste just as much as he had Carl the chaste. Carl seemed neither better nor worse for his experience.</p>
			<p>He was lashed by desire; he was burning with curiosity⁠—and yet, and yet something held him back. Something⁠—he hardly knew what it was⁠—made him avoid any woman who had a reputation for moral laxity. He shrank from such a woman⁠—and desired her so intensely that he was ashamed.</p>
			<p>Life was suddenly becoming very complicated, more complicated, it seemed, every day. With other undergraduates he discussed women and religion endlessly, but he never reached any satisfactory conclusions. He wished that he knew some professor that he could talk to. Surely some of them must know the answers to his riddles.⁠ ⁠…</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
