<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">X</span></h2>
			<br/>
			<p>The football season lasted from the first of October to the latter part of November, and during those weeks little was talked about, or even thought about, on the campus but football. There were undergraduates who knew the personnel of virtually every football team in the country, the teams that had played against each other, their relative merits, the various scores, the outstanding players of each position. Half the students at Sanford regularly made out “All American” teams, and each man was more than willing to debate the quality of his team against that of any other. Night after night the students gathered in groups in dormitory rooms and fraternity houses, discussing football, football, football; even religion and sex, the favorite topics for “bull sessions,” could not compete with football, especially when someone mentioned Raleigh College. Raleigh was Sanford’s ancient rival; to defeat her was of cosmic importance.</p>
			<p>There was a game every Saturday. About half the time the team played at home; the other games were played on the rivals’ fields. No matter how far away the team traveled, the college traveled with it. The men who had the necessary money went by train; a few owned automobiles: but most of the undergraduates had neither an automobile nor money for train fare. They “bummed” their way. Some of them emulated professional tramps, and “rode the beams,” but most of them started out walking, trusting that kindhearted motorists would pick them up and carry them at least part way to their destination. Although the distances were sometimes great, and although many motorists are not kind, there is no record of any man who ever started for a game not arriving in time for the referee’s first whistle. Somehow, by hook or by crook⁠—and it was often by crook⁠—the boys got there, and, what is more astonishing, they got back. On Monday morning at 8:45 they were in chapel, usually worn and tired, it is true, ready to bluff their way through the day’s assignments, and damning any instructor who was heartless enough to give them a quiz. Some of them were worn out from really harsh traveling experiences; some of them had more exciting adventures to relate behind closed doors to selected groups of confidants.</p>
			<p>Football! Nothing else mattered. And as the weeks passed, the excitement grew, especially as the day drew near for the Raleigh game, which this year was to be played on the Sanford field. What were Sanford’s chances? Would Harry Slade, Sanford’s great halfback, make All American? “Damn it to hell, he ought to. It’ll be a stinkin’ shame if he don’t.” Would Raleigh’s line be able to stop Slade’s end runs? Slade! Slade! He was the team, the hope and adoration of the whole college.</p>
			<p>Three days before the “big game” the alumni began to pour into town, most of them fairly recent graduates, but many of them gray-haired men who boasted that they hadn’t missed a Sanford-Raleigh game in thirty years. Hundreds of alumni arrived, filling the two hotels to capacity and overrunning the fraternity houses, the students doubling up or seeking hospitality from a friend in a dormitory.</p>
			<p>In the little room in the rear of the Sanford Pool and Billiard Parlors there was almost continual excitement. Jim McCarty, the proprietor, a big, jovial, red-faced man whom all the students called Mac, was the official stakeholder for the college. Bets for any amount could be placed with him. Money from Raleigh flowed into his pudgy hands, and he placed it at the odds offered with eager Sanford takers. By the day of the game his safe held thousands of dollars, most of it wagered at five to three, Raleigh offering odds. There was hardly an alumnus who did not prove his loyalty to Sanford by visiting Mac’s back room and putting down a few greenbacks, at least. Some were more loyal than others; the most loyal placed a thousand dollars⁠—at five to two.</p>
			<p>There was rain for two days before the game, but on Friday night the clouds broke. A full moon seemed to shine them away, and the whole campus rejoiced with great enthusiasm. Most of the alumni got drunk to show their deep appreciation to the moon, and many of the undergraduates followed the example set by their elders.</p>
			<p>All Friday afternoon girls had been arriving, dozens of them, to attend the fraternity dances. One dormitory had been set aside for them, the normal residents seeking shelter in other dormitories. No man ever objected to resigning his room to a girl. He never could tell what he would find when he returned to it Monday morning. Some of the girls left strange mementos.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>No one except a few notorious grinds studied that night. Some of the students were, of course, at the fraternity dances; some of them sat in dormitory rooms and discussed the coming game from every possible angle; and groups of them wandered around the campus, peering into the fraternity houses, commenting on the girls, wandering on humming a song that an orchestra had been playing, occasionally pausing to give a “regular cheer” for the moon.</p>
			<p>Hugh was too much excited to stay in a room; so with several other freshmen he traveled the campus. He passionately envied the dancers in the fraternity houses but consoled himself with the thought, “Maybe I’ll be dancing at the Nu Delt house next year.” Then he had a spasm of fright. Perhaps the Nu Delts⁠—perhaps no fraternity would bid him. The moon lost its brilliance; for a moment even the Sanford-Raleigh game was forgotten.</p>
			<p>The boys were standing before a fraternity house, and as the music ceased, Jack Collings suggested: “Let’s serenade them. You lead, Hugh.”</p>
			<p>Hugh had a sweet, light tenor voice. It was not at all remarkable, just clear and true; but he had easily made the Glee Club and had an excellent chance to be chosen freshman song-leader.</p>
			<p>Collings had brought a guitar with him. He handed it to Hugh, who, like most musical undergraduates, could play both a guitar and a banjo. “Sing that ‘I arise from dreams of thee’ thing that you were singing the other night. We’ll hum.”</p>
			<p>Hugh slipped the cord around his neck, tuned the guitar, and then thrummed a few opening chords. His heart was beating at double time; he was very happy: he was serenading girls at a fraternity dance. Couples were strolling out upon the veranda, the girls throwing warm wraps over their shoulders, the men lighting cigarettes and tossing the burnt matches on the lawn. Their white shirtfronts gleamed eerily in the pale light cast by the Japanese lanterns with which the veranda was hung.</p>
			<p>Hugh began to sing Shelley’s passionate lyric, set so well to music by Tod B. Galloway. His mother had taught him the song, and he loved it.</p>
			<span>“I arise from dreams of thee</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In the first sweet sleep of night,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>When the winds are breathing low</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And the stars are shining bright.</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I arise from dreams of thee,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>And a spirit in my feet</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Hath led me⁠—who knows how?</span>
			<br/>
			<span>To thy chamber-window, Sweet!”</span>
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<p>Two of the boys, who had heard Hugh sing the song before, hummed a soft accompaniment. When he began the second verse several more began to hum; they had caught the melody. The couples on the veranda moved quietly to the porch railing, their chatter silent, their attention focused on a group of dim figures standing in the shadow of an elm. Hugh was singing well, better than he ever had before. Neither he nor his audience knew that the lyric was immortal, but its tender, passionate beauty caught and held them.</p>
			<span>“The wandering airs they faint</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On the dark, the silent stream⁠—</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The champak odors fail</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Like sweet-thoughts in a dream;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>The nightingale’s complaint</span>
			<br/>
			<span>It dies upon her heart,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>As I must die on thine</span>
			<br/>
			<span>O beloved as thou art!</span>
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<span>“Oh lift me from the grass!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>I die, I faint, I fail!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Let thy love in kisses rain</span>
			<br/>
			<span>On my cheeks and eyelids pale.</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My cheek is cold and white, alas!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>My heart beats loud and fast;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Oh! press it close to thine again</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Where it will break at last.”</span>
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<p>There was silence for a moment after Hugh finished. The shadows, the moonlight, the boy’s soft young voice had moved them all. Suddenly a girl on the veranda cried, “Bring him up!” Instantly half a dozen others turned to their escorts, insisting shrilly: “Bring him up. We want to see him.”</p>
			<p>Hugh jerked the guitar cord from around his neck, banded the instrument to Collings, and tried to run. A burst of laughter went up from the freshmen. They caught him and held him fast until the Tuxedo-clad upper-classmen rushed down from the veranda and had him by the arms. They pulled him, protesting and struggling, upon the veranda and into the living-room.</p>
			<p>The girls gathered around him, praising, demanding more. He flushed scarlet when one enthusiastic maiden forced her way through the ring, looked hard at him, and then announced positively, “I think he’s sweet.” He was intensely embarrassed, in an agony of confusion⁠—but very happy. The girls liked his clean blondness, his blushes, his startled smile. How long they would have held him there in the center of the ring while they admired and teased him, there is no telling; but suddenly the orchestra brought relief by striking up a foxtrot.</p>
			<p>“He’s mine!” cried a pretty black-eyed girl with a cloud of bobbed hair and flaming cheeks. Her slender shoulders were bare; her round white arms waved in excited, graceful gestures; her corn-colored frock was a gauzy mist. She clutched Hugh’s arm. “He’s mine,” she repeated shrilly. “He’s going to dance with me.”</p>
			<p>Hugh’s cheeks burned a deeper scarlet. “My clothes,” he muttered, hesitating.</p>
			<p>“Your clothes! My dear, you look sweet. Take off your cap and dance with me.”</p>
			<p>Hugh snatched off his cap, his mind reeling with shame, but he had no time to think. The girl pulled him through the crowd to a clear floor. Almost mechanically, Hugh put his arm around her and began to dance. He <em>could</em> dance, and the girl had sense enough not to talk. She floated in his arm, her slender body close to his. When the music ceased, she clapped her little hands excitedly and told Hugh that he danced “won-der-ful-ly.” After the third encore she led him to a dark corner in the hall.</p>
			<p>“You’re sweet, honey,” she said softly. She turned her small, glowing face up to his. “Kiss me,” she commanded.</p>
			<p>Dazed, Hugh gathered her into his arms and kissed her little red mouth. She clung to him for a minute and then pushed him gently away.</p>
			<p>“Good night, honey,” she whispered.</p>
			<p>“Good night.” Hugh’s voice broke huskily. He turned and walked rapidly down the hall, upon the veranda, and down the steps. His classmates were waiting for him. They rushed up to him, demanding that he tell them what had happened.</p>
			<p>He told them most of it, especially about the dance; but he neglected to mention the kiss. Shyness overcame any desire that he had to strut. Besides, there was something about that kiss that made it impossible for him to tell anyone, even Carl. When he went to bed that night, he did not think once about the coming football game. Before his eyes floated the girl in the corn-colored frock. He wished he knew her name.⁠ ⁠… Closer and closer she came to him. He could feel her cool arms around his neck. “What a wonderful, wonderful girl! Sweeter than Helen⁠—lots sweeter.⁠ ⁠… She’s like the night⁠—and moonlight.⁠ ⁠… Like moonlight and⁠—” The music of the “Indian Serenade” began to thrill through his mind:</p>
			<span>“I arise from dreams of thee</span>
			<br/>
			<span>In the first sweet sleep of night.⁠ ⁠…</span>
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<p>Oh, she’s sweet, sweet⁠—like music and moonlight.⁠ ⁠…” He fell asleep, repeating “music and moonlight” over and over again⁠—“music and moonlight.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The morning of the “big game” proved ideal, crisp and cold, crystal clear. Indian summer was near its close, but there was still something of its dreamy wonder in the air, and the hills still flamed with glorious autumn foliage. The purples, the mauves, the scarlets, the burnt oranges were a little dimmed, a little less brilliant⁠—the leaves were rustling dryly now⁠—but there was beauty in dying autumn, its splendor slowly fading, as there was in its first startling burst of color.</p>
			<p>Classes that Saturday morning were a farce, but they were held; the administration, which the boys damned heartily, insisted upon it. Some of the instructors merely took the roll and dismissed their classes, feeling that honor had been satisfied; but others held their classes through the hour, lecturing the disgusted students on their lack of interest, warning them that examinations weren’t as far off as the millennium.</p>
			<p>Hugh felt that he was lucky; he had only one class⁠—it was with Alling in Latin⁠—and it had been promptly dismissed. “When the day comes,” said Alling, “that Latin can compete with football, I’ll⁠—well, I’ll probably get a living wage. You had better go before I get to talking about a living wage. It is one of my favorite topics.” He waved his hand toward the door; the boys roared with delight and rushed out of the room, shoving each other and laughing. They ran out of the building; all of them were too excited to walk.</p>
			<p>By half-past one the stands were filled. Most of the girls wore fur coats, as did many of the alumni, but the students sported no such luxuries; nine tenths of them wore “baa-baa coats,” gray jackets lined with sheep’s wool. Except for an occasional banner, usually carried by a girl, and the bright hats of the women, there was little color to the scene. The air was sharp, and the spectators huddled down into their warm coats.</p>
			<p>The rival cheering sections, seated on opposite sides of the field, alternated in cheering and singing, each applauding the other’s efforts. The cheering wasn’t very good, and the singing was worse; but there was a great deal of noise, and that was about all that mattered to either side.</p>
			<p>A few minutes before two, the Raleigh team ran upon the field. The Raleigh cheering section promptly went mad. When the Sanford team appeared a minute later, the Sanford cheering section tried its best to go madder, the boys whistling and yelling like possessed demons. Wayne Gifford brought them to attention by holding his hands above his head. He called for the usual regular cheer for the team and then for a short cheer for each member of it, starting with the captain, Sherman Walford, and ending with the great halfback, Harry Slade.</p>
			<p>Suddenly there was silence. The tossup had been completed; the teams were in position on the field. Slade had finished building a slender pyramid of mud, on which he had balanced the ball. The referee held up his hand. “Are you ready, Sanford?” Walford signaled his readiness. “Are you ready, Raleigh?”</p>
			<p>The shrill blast of the referee’s whistle⁠—and the game was on. The first half was a seesaw up and down the field. Near the end of the half Raleigh was within twenty yards of the Sanford line. Shouts of “Score! Score! Score!” went up from the Raleigh rooters, rhythmic, insistent. “Hold ’em! Hold ’em! Fight! Fight! Fight!” the Sanford cheering section pleaded, almost sobbing the words. A forward pass skilfully completed netted Raleigh sixteen yards. “Fight! Fight! Fight!”</p>
			<p>The timekeeper tooted his little horn; the half was over. For a moment the Sanford boys leaned back exhausted; then they leaped to their feet and yelled madly, while the Raleigh boys leaned back or against each other and swore fervently. Within two minutes the tension had departed. The rival cheering sections alternated in singing songs, applauded each other vigorously, whistled at a frightened dog that tried to cross the field and nearly lost its mind entirely when called by a thousand masters, waited breathlessly when the cheerleaders announced the results from other football games that had been telegraphed to the field, applauded if Harvard was losing, groaned if it wasn’t, sang some more, relaxed and felt consummately happy.</p>
			<p>Sanford immediately took the offensive in the second half. Slade was consistently carrying the ball. Twice he brought it within Raleigh’s twenty-five-yard line. The first time Raleigh held firm, but the second time Slade stepped back for a dropkick. The spectators sat silent, breathless. The angle was difficult. Could he make it? Would the line hold?</p>
			<p>Quite calmly Slade waited. The center passed the ball neatly. Slade turned it in his hands, paid not the slightest attention to the mad struggle going on a few feet in front of him, dropped the ball⁠—and kicked. The ball rose in a graceful arc and passed safely between the goalposts.</p>
			<p>Everyone, men and women alike, the Raleigh adherents excepted, promptly turned into extraordinarily active lunatics. The women waved their banners and shrieked, or if they had no banners, they waved their arms and shrieked; the men danced up and down, yelled, pounded each other on the back, sometimes wildly embraced⁠—many a woman was kissed by a man she had never seen before and never would again, nor did she object⁠—Wayne Gifford was turning handsprings, and many of the students were feebly fluttering their hands, voiceless, spent with cheering, weak from excitement.</p>
			<p>Early in the fourth quarter, however, Raleigh got its revenge, carrying the ball to a touchdown after a series of line rushes. Sanford tried desperately to score again, but its best efforts were useless against the Raleigh defense.</p>
			<p>The final whistle blew; and Sanford had lost. Cheering wildly, tossing their hats into the air, the Raleigh students piled down from the grand stand upon the field. With the cheerleaders at the head, waving their megaphones, the boys rapidly formed into a long line in uneven groups, holding arms, dancing, shouting, winding in and out around the field, between the goalposts, tossing their hats over the bars, waving their hands at the Sanford men standing despondently in their places⁠—in and out, in and out, in the triumphant serpentine. Finally they paused, took off their hats, cheered first their own team, then the Sanford team, and then sang their hymn while the Sanford men respectfully uncovered, silent and despairing.</p>
			<p>When the hymn was over, the Sanford men quietly left the grand stand, quietly formed into a long line in groups of fours, quietly marched to the college flagpole in the center of the campus. A Sanford banner was flying from the pole, a blue banner with an orange S. Wayne Gifford loosened the ropes. Down fluttered the banner, and the boys reverently took off their hats. Gifford caught the banner before it touched the ground and gathered it into his arms. The song-leader stepped beside him. He lifted his hand, sang a note, and then the boys sang with him, huskily, sadly, some of them with tears streaming down their cheeks:</p>
			<span>“Sanford, Sanford, mother of men,</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Love us, guard us, hold us true.</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Let thy arms enfold us;</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Let thy truth uphold us.</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Queen of colleges, mother of men⁠—</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Alma mater, Sanford⁠—hail!</span>
			<br/>
			<span>Alma mater⁠—Hail!⁠—Hail!”</span>
			<br/>
			<br/>
			<p>Slowly the circle broke into small groups that straggled wearily across the campus. Hugh, with two or three others, was walking behind two young professors⁠—one of them, Alling, the other, Jones of the economics department. Hugh was almost literally brokenhearted; the defeat lay on him like an awful sorrow that never could be lifted. Every inch of him ached, but his despair was greater than his physical pain. The sharp, clear voice of Jones broke into his half-deadened consciousness.</p>
			<p>“I can’t understand all this emotional excitement,” said Jones crisply. “A football game is a football game, not a national calamity. I enjoy the game myself, but why weep over it? I don’t think I ever saw anything more absurd than those boys singing with tears running into their mouths.”</p>
			<p>Shocked, the boys looked at each other. They started to make angry remarks but paused as Alling spoke.</p>
			<p>“Of course, what you say, Jones, is quite right,” he remarked calmly, “quite right. But, do you know, I pity you.”</p>
			<p>“Alling’s a good guy,” Hugh told Carl later; “he’s human.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
