<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span></h2>
			<br/>
			<p>Capwell Chapel⁠—it bore the pork merchant’s name as an eternal memorial to him⁠—was as impressive inside as out. The stained-glass windows had been made by a famous New York firm; the altar had been designed by an even more famous sculptor. The walls, quite improperly, were adorned with paintings of former presidents, but the largest painting of all⁠—it was fairly Gargantuan⁠—was of the pork merchant, a large, ruddy gentleman, whom the artist, a keen observer, had painted truly⁠—complacently porcine, benevolently smug.</p>
			<p>The seniors and juniors sat in the nave, the sophomores on the right side of the transept, the freshmen on the left. Hugh gazed upward in awe at the dim recesses of the vaulted ceiling, at the ornately carved choir where gowned students were quietly seating themselves, at the colored light streaming through the beautiful windows, at the picture of the pork merchant. The chapel bells ceased tolling; rich, solemn tones swelled from the organ.</p>
			<p>President Culver in cap and gown, his purple hood falling over his shoulders, entered followed by his faculty, also gowned and hooded. The students rose and remained standing until the president and faculty were seated. The organ sounded a final chord, and then the college chaplain rose and prayed⁠—very badly. He implored the Lord to look kindly “on these young men who have come from near and far to drink from this great fount of learning, this well of wisdom.”</p>
			<p>The prayer over, the president addressed the students. He was a large, erect man with iron-gray hair and a rugged intelligent face. Although he was sixty years old, his body was vigorous and free from extra weight. He spoke slowly and impressively, choosing his words with care and enunciating them with great distinctness. His address was for the freshmen: he welcomed them to Sanford College, to its splendid traditions, its high ideals, its noble history. He spoke of the famous men it numbered among its sons, of the work they had done for America and the world, of the work he hoped future Sanford men, they, the freshmen, would some day do for America and the world. He mentioned briefly the boys from Sanford who had died in the World War “to make the world safe for democracy,” and he prayed that their sacrifice had not been in vain. Finally, he spoke of the chapel service, which the students were required to attend. He hoped that they would find inspiration in it, knowledge and strength. He assured them that the service would always be nonsectarian, that there would never be anything in it to offend any one of any race, creed, or religion. With a last exhortation to the freshmen to make the most of their great opportunities, he ended with the announcement that they would rise and sing the sixty-seventh hymn.</p>
			<p>Hugh was deeply impressed by the speech but disturbed by the students. From where he sat he got an excellent view of the juniors and seniors. The seniors, who sat in the front of the nave, seemed to be paying fairly good attention; but the juniors⁠—many of them, at least⁠—paid no attention at all. Some of them were munching apples, some doughnuts, and many of them were reading “The Sanford News,” the college’s daily paper. Some of the juniors talked during the president’s address, and once he noticed four of them doubled up as if overcome by laughter. To him the service was a beautiful and impressive occasion. He could not understand the conduct of the upper-classmen. It seemed, to put it mildly, irreverent.</p>
			<p>Every one, however, sang the doxology with great vigor, some of the boys lifting up a “whisky” tenor that made the chapel ring, and to which Hugh happily added his own clear tenor. The benediction was pronounced by the chaplain, the seniors marched out slowly in twos, while the other students and the faculty stood in their places; then the president, followed by the faculty, passed out of the great doors. When the back of the last faculty gown had disappeared, the underclassmen broke for the door, pushing each other aside, swearing when a toe was stepped on, yelling to each other, some of them joyously chanting the doxology. Hugh was caught in the rush and carried along with the mob, feeling ashamed and distressed; this was no way to leave a church.</p>
			<p>Once outside, however, he had no time to think of the chapel service; he had five minutes in which to get to his first class, and the building was across the campus, a good two minutes’ walk. He patted his cap to be sure that it was firmly on the back of his head, clutched his notebook, and ran as hard as he could go, the strolling upper-classmen, whom he passed at top speed, grinning after him in tolerant amusement.</p>
			<p>Hugh was the first one in the classroom and wondered in a moment of panic if he was in the right place. He sat down dubiously and looked at his watch. Four minutes left. He would wait two, and then if nobody came he would⁠—he gasped; he couldn’t imagine what he would do. How could he find the right classroom? Maybe his class didn’t come at this hour at all. Suppose he and Carl had made a mistake. If they had, his whole schedule was probably wrong. “Oh, golly,” he thought, feeling pitifully weak, “won’t that be hell? What can I do?”</p>
			<p>At that moment a countrified-looking youth entered, looking as scared as Hugh felt. His face was pale, and his voice trembled as he asked timidly, “Do you know if this is Section Three of Math One?”</p>
			<p>Hugh was immediately strengthened. “I think so,” he replied. “Anyhow, let’s wait and find out.”</p>
			<p>The freshman sighed in huge relief, took out a not too clean handkerchief, and mopped his face. “Criminy!” he exclaimed as he wriggled down the aisle to a seat by Hugh, “I was sure worried. I thought I was in the wrong building, though I was sure that my adviser had told me positively that Math was in Matthew Six.”</p>
			<p>“I guess we’re all right,” Hugh comforted him as two other freshmen, also looking dubious, entered. They were followed by four more, and then by a stampeding group, all of them pop-eyed, all of them in a rush. In the next minute five freshmen dashed in and then dashed out again, utterly bewildered, obviously terrified, and not knowing where to go or what to do. “Is this Math One, Section Three?” every man demanded of the room as he entered; and every one yelled, “Yes,” or, “I think so.”</p>
			<p>Just as the bell rang at ten minutes after the hour, the instructor entered. It was Professor Kane.</p>
			<p>“This is Mathematics One, Section Three,” Kane announced in a dry voice. “If there is any one here who does not belong here, he will please leave.” Nobody moved; so he shuffled some cards in his hand and asked the men to answer to the roll-call.</p>
			<p>“Adams, J. H.”</p>
			<p>“Present, sir.”</p>
			<p>Kane looked up and frowned. “Say ‘here,’ ” he said severely. “This is not a grammar-school.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” stuttered Adams, his face first white then purple. “Here, sir.”</p>
			<p>“ ‘Here’ will do; there is no need of the ‘sir.’ Allsop, <abbr class="name eoc">K. E.</abbr>”</p>
			<p>“Here”⁠—in a very faint voice.</p>
			<p>“Speak up!”</p>
			<p>“Here.” This time a little louder.</p>
			<p>And so it went, hardly a man escaping without some admonishment. Hugh’s throat went dry; his tongue literally stuck to the roof of his mouth: he was sure that he wouldn’t be able to say “Here” when it came his turn, and he could feel his heart pounding in dreadful anticipation.</p>
			<p>“Carver, H. M.”</p>
			<p>“Here!”</p>
			<p>There! it was out! Or had he really said it?</p>
			<p>He looked at the professor in terror, but Kane was already calling, “Dana, <abbr class="name">R. T.</abbr>” Hugh sank back in his chair; he was trembling.</p>
			<p>Kane announced the textbook, and when Hugh caught the word “trigonometry” he actually thrilled with joy. He had had trig in high school. Whoops! Would he hit Math I in the eye? He’d knock it for a goal.⁠ ⁠… Then conscience spoke. Oughtn’t he to tell Kane that he had already had trig? He guessed quite rightly that Kane had not understood his high-school credentials, which had given him credit for “advanced mathematics.” Kane had taken it for granted that that was advanced algebra. Hugh felt that he ought to explain the mistake, but fear of the arid, impersonal man restrained him. Kane had told him to take Math I; and Kane was law.</p>
			<p>Unlike most of Hugh’s instructors, Kane kept the class the full hour the first day, seating them in alphabetical order⁠—he had to repeat the performance three times during the week as new men entered the class⁠—lecturing them on the need of doing their problems carefully and accurately, and discoursing on the value of mathematics, trigonometry in particular, in the study of science and engineering. Hugh was not interested in science, engineering, or mathematics, but he listened carefully, trying hard to follow Kane’s cold discourse. At the end of the hour he told his neighbor as they left the room that he guessed that Professor Kane knew an awful lot, and his neighbor agreed with him.</p>
			<p>Hugh’s other instructors proved less impressive than Kane; in fact, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Alling, the instructor in Latin, was altogether disconcerting.</p>
			<p>“Plautus,” he told the class, “wrote comedies, farces⁠—not exercises in translation. He was also, my innocents, occasionally naughty⁠—oh, really naughty. What’s worse, he used slang, common everyday slang⁠—the kind of stuff that you and I talk. Now, I have an excellent vocabulary of slang, obscenity, and profanity; and you are going to hear most of it. Think of the opportunity. Don’t think that I mean just ‘damn’ and ‘hell.’ They are good for a laugh in a theater any day, but Plautus was not restrained by our modern conventions. <em>You</em> will confine yourselves, please, to English undefiled, but I shall speak the modern equivalent to a Roman gutter-pup’s language whenever necessary. You will find this course very illuminating⁠—in some ways. And, who knows? you may learn something not only about Latin but about Rome.”</p>
			<p>Hugh thought <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Alling was rather flippant and lacking in dignity. Professor Kane was more like a college teacher. Before the term was out he hated Kane with an intensity that astonished him, and he looked forward to his Latin classes with an eagerness of which he was almost ashamed. Plautus in the Alling free and colloquial translations was enormously funny.</p>
			<p>Professor Hartley, who gave the history lectures, talked in a bass monotone and never seemed to pause for breath. His words came in a slow steady stream that never rose nor fell nor paused⁠—until the bell rang. The men in the back of the room slept. Hugh was seated near the front; so he drew pictures in his notebook. The English instructor talked about punctuation as if it were very unpleasant but almost religiously important; and what the various lecturers in general science talked about⁠—ten men gave the course⁠—Hugh never knew. In after years all that he could remember about the course was that one man spoke broken English and that a professor of physics had made huge bulbs glow with marvelous colors.</p>
			<p>Hugh had one terrifying experience before he finally got settled to his work. It occurred the second day of classes. He was comfortably seated in what he thought was his English class⁠—he had come in just as the bell rang⁠—when the instructor announced that it was a class in French. What was he to do? What would the instructor do if he got up and left the room? What would happen if he didn’t report at his English class? What would happen to him for coming into his English class late? These questions staggered his mind. He was afraid to stay in the French class. Cautiously he got up and began to tiptoe to the door.</p>
			<p>“Wrong room?” the instructor asked pleasantly.</p>
			<p>Hugh flushed. “Yes, sir.” He stopped dead still, not knowing what to do next.</p>
			<p>He was a typical rattled freshman, and the class, which was composed of sophomores, laughed. Hugh, angry and humiliated, started for the door, but the instructor held up a hand that silenced the class; then he motioned for Hugh to come to his desk.</p>
			<p>“What class are you looking for?”</p>
			<p>“English One, sir, Section Seven.” He held out his schedule card, reassured by the instructor’s kindly manner.</p>
			<p>The instructor looked at the card and then consulted a printed schedule.</p>
			<p>“Oh,” he said, “your adviser made a mistake. He got you into the wrong group list. You belong in Sanders Six.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, sir.” Hugh spoke so softly that the waiting class did not hear him, but the instructor smiled at the intensity of his thanks. As he left the room, he knew that every one was looking at him; his legs felt as if they were made of wood. It wasn’t until he had closed the door that his knee-joints worked naturally. But the worst was still ahead of him. He had to go to his English class in Sanders 6. He ran across the campus, his heart beating wildly, his hands desperately clenched. When he reached Sanders 6, he found three other freshmen grouped before the door.</p>
			<p>“Is this English One, Section Seven?” one asked tremulously.</p>
			<p>“I think so,” whispered the second. “Do you know?” he asked, turning to Hugh.</p>
			<p>“Yes; I am almost sure.”</p>
			<p>They stood there looking at each other, no one quite daring to enter Sanders 6, no one quite daring to leave. Suddenly the front door of the building slammed. A bareheaded youth rushed up the stairs. He was a repeater; that is, a man who had failed the course the preceding year and was taking it over again. He brushed by the scared freshmen, opened the door, and strode into Sanders 6, closing the door behind him.</p>
			<p>The freshmen looked at each other, and then the one nearest the door opened it. The four of them filed in silently.</p>
			<p>The class looked up. “Sit in the back of the room,” said the instructor.</p>
			<p>And that was all there was to that. In his senior year Hugh remembered the incident and wondered at his terror. He tried to remember why he had been so badly frightened. He couldn’t; there didn’t seem to be any reason at all.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
