<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h2>
			<p>For the first term Hugh slid comfortably down a well oiled groove of routine. He went to the movies regularly, wrote as regularly to Cynthia and thought about her even more, read enormous quantities of poetry, “bulled” with his friends, attended all the athletic contests, played cards occasionally, and received his daily liquor from Vinton. He no longer protested when Vinton offered him a drink; he accepted it as a matter of course, and he had almost completely forgotten that “smoking wasn’t good for a runner.” He had just about decided that he wasn’t a runner, anyway.</p>
			<p>One evening in early spring he met George Winsor as he was crossing the campus.</p>
			<p>“Hello, George. Where are you going?”</p>
			<p>“Over to Ted Allen’s room. Big poker party tonight. Don’t you want to sit in?”</p>
			<p>“You told me last week that you had sworn off poker. How come you’re playing again so soon?” Hugh strolled lazily along with Winsor.</p>
			<p>“Not poker, Hugh⁠—craps. I’ve sworn off craps for good, and maybe I’ll swear off poker after tonight. I’m nearly a hundred berries to the good right now, and I can afford to play if I want to.”</p>
			<p>“I’m a little ahead myself,” said Hugh. “I don’t play very often, though, except in the house when the fellows insist. I can’t shoot craps at all, and I get tired of cards after a couple of hours.”</p>
			<p>“I’m a damn fool to play,” Winsor asserted positively, “a plain damn fool, I oughtn’t to waste my time at it, but I’m a regular fiend for the game. I get a great kick out of it. How’s to sit in with us? There’s only going to be half a dozen fellows. Two-bit limit.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, it’ll start with a two-bit limit, but after an hour deuces’ll be wild all over the place and the sky will be the limit. I’ve sat in those games before.”</p>
			<p>Winsor laughed. “Guess you’re right, but what’s the odds? Better shoot a few hands.”</p>
			<p>“Well, all-right, but I can’t stay later than eleven. I’ve got a quiz in eccy tomorrow, and I’ve got to bone up on it some time tonight.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve got that quiz, too. I’ll leave with you at eleven.”</p>
			<p>Winsor and Hugh entered the dormitory and climbed the stairs. Allen’s door was open, and several undergraduates were lolling around the room, smoking and chatting. They welcomed the newcomers with shouts of “Hi, Hugh,” and “Hi, George.”</p>
			<p>Allen had a large round table in the center of his study, and the boys soon had it cleared for action. Allen tossed the cards upon the table, produced several ashtrays, and then carefully locked the door.</p>
			<p>“Keep an ear open for Mac,” he admonished his friends; “He’s warned me twice now,” “Mac” was the night-watchman, and he had a way of dropping in unexpectedly on gambling parties. “Here are the chips. You count ’em out, George. Two-bit limit.”</p>
			<p>The boys drew up chairs to the table, lighted cigarettes or pipes, and began the game. Hugh had been right; the “two-bit limit” was soon lifted, and Allen urged his guests to go as far as they liked.</p>
			<p>There were ugly rumors about Allen around the campus. He was good looking, belonged to a fraternity in high standing, wore excellent clothes, and did fairly well in his studies; but the rumors persisted. There were students who insisted that he hadn’t the conscience of a snake, and a good many of them hinted that no honest man ever had such consistently good luck at cards and dice.</p>
			<p>The other boys soon got heated and talkative, but Allen said little besides announcing his bids. His blue eyes remained coldly expressionless whether he won or lost the hand; his crisp, curly brown hair remained neatly combed and untouched by a nervous hand; his lips parted occasionally in a quiet smile: he was the perfect gambler, never excited, always in absolute control of himself.</p>
			<p>Hugh marveled at the control as the evening wore on. He was excited, and, try as he would, he could not keep his excitement from showing. Luck, however, was with him; by ten o’clock he was seventy-five dollars ahead, and most of it was Allen’s money.</p>
			<p>Hugh passed by three hands in succession, unwilling to take any chances. He had decided to “play close,” never betting unless he held something worth putting his money on.</p>
			<p>Allen dealt the fourth hand. “Ante up,” he said quietly. The five other men followed his lead in tossing chips into the center of the table. He looked at his hand. “Two blue ones if you want to stay in.” Winsor and two of the men threw down their cards, but Hugh and a lad named Mandel each shoved two blue chips into the pot.</p>
			<p>Hugh had three queens and an ace. “One card,” he said to Allen. Allen tossed him the card, and Hugh’s heart leaped when he saw that it was an ace.</p>
			<p>“Two cards, Ted,” Mandel requested, nervously crushing his cigarette in an ashtray. He picked up the cards one at a time, lifting each slowly by one corner, and peeking at it as if he were afraid that a sudden full view would blast him to eternity. His face did not change expression as he added the cards to the three that he held in his hand.</p>
			<p>“I’m sitting pretty,” Allen remarked casually, picking up the five cards that he had laid down before he dealt.</p>
			<p>The betting began, Hugh nervous, openly excited, Mandel stonily calm, Allen completely at ease. At first the bets were for a dollar, but they gradually rose to five. Mandel threw down his cards.</p>
			<p>“Fight it out,” he said morosely. “I’ve thrown away twenty-five bucks, and I’ll be damned if I’m going to throw away any more to see your four-flushes.”</p>
			<p>Allen lifted a pile of chips and let them fall lightly, clicking a rapid staccato. “It’ll cost you ten dollars to see my hand, Hugh,” he said quietly.</p>
			<p>“It’ll cost you twenty if you want to see mine,” Hugh responded, tossing the equivalent to thirty dollars into the pot. He watched Allen eagerly, but Allen’s face remained quite impassive as he raised Hugh another ten.</p>
			<p>The four boys who weren’t playing leaned forward, pipes or cigarettes in their mouths, their stomachs pressed against the table, their eyes narrowed and excited. The air was a stench of stale smoke; the silence between bets was electric.</p>
			<p>The betting continued, Hugh sure that Allen was bluffing, but Allen never failed to raise him ten dollars on every bet. Finally Hugh had a hundred dollars in the pot and dared not risk more on his hand.</p>
			<p>“I think you’re bluffing, goddamn it,” he said, his voice shrill and nervous. “I’ll call you. Show your stinkin’ hand.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, not so stinkin’,” Allen replied lightly. “I’ve got four of a kind, all of ’em kings. Let’s see your three deuces.”</p>
			<p>He tossed down his hand, and Hugh slumped in his chair at the sight of the four kings. He shoved the pile of chips toward Allen. “Take the pot, damn you. Of all the bastard luck. Look!” He slapped down his cards angrily. “A full house, queens up. Christ!” He burst into a flood of obscenity, the other boys listening sympathetically, all except Allen who was carefully stacking the chips.</p>
			<p>In a few minutes Hugh’s anger died. He remembered that he was only about twenty-five dollars behind and that he had an hour in which to recover them. His face became set and hard; his hands lost their jerky eagerness. He played carefully, never daring to enter a big pot, never betting for more than his hands were worth.</p>
			<p>As the bets grew larger, the room grew quieter. Everyone was smoking constantly; the air was heavy with smoke, and the stench grew more and more foul. Outside of a soft, “I raise you twenty,” or, even, “Fifty bucks if you want to see my hand,” a muttered oath or a request to buy chips, there was hardly a word said. The excitement was so intense that it hurt; the expletives smelled of the docks.</p>
			<p>At times there was more than five hundred dollars in a pot, and five times out of seven when the pot was big, Allen won it. Win or lose, he continued cool and calm, at times smoking a pipe, other times puffing nonchalantly at a cigarette.</p>
			<p>The acrid smoke cut Hugh’s eyes; they smarted and pained, but he continued to light cigarette after cigarette, drawing the smoke deep into his lungs, hardly aware of the fact that they hurt.</p>
			<p>He won and lost, won and lost, but gradually he won back the twenty-five dollars and a little more. The college clock struck eleven. He knew that he ought to go, but he wondered if he could quit with honor when he was ahead.</p>
			<p>“I ought to go,” he said hesitatingly. “I told George when I said that I’d sit in that I’d have to leave at eleven. I’ve got an eccy quiz tomorrow that I’ve got to study for.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t leave now,” one of the men said excitedly. “Why, hell, man, the game’s just getting warm.”</p>
			<p>“I know,” Hugh agreed, “and I hate like hell to quit, but I’ve really got to beat it. Besides, the stakes are too big for me. I can’t afford a game like this.”</p>
			<p>“You can afford it as well as I can,” Mandel said irritably. “I’m over two hundred berries in the hole right now, and you can goddamn well bet that I’m not going to leave until I get them back.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m a hundred and fifty to the bad,” Winsor announced miserably, “but I’ve got to go. If I don’t hit that eccy, I’m going to be out of luck.” He shoved back his chair. “I hate like hell to leave; but I promised Hugh that I’d leave with him at eleven, and I’ve got to do it.”</p>
			<p>Allen had been quite indifferent when Hugh said that he was leaving. Hugh was obviously small money, and Allen had no time to waste on chickenfeed, but Winsor was a different matter.</p>
			<p>“You don’t want to go, George, when you’re in the hole. Better stick around. Maybe you’ll win it back. Your luck can’t be bad all night.”</p>
			<p>“You’re right,” said Winsor, stretching mightily. “It can’t be bad all night, but I can’t hang around all night to watch it change. You’re welcome to the hundred and fifty, Ted, but some night soon I’m coming over and take it away from you.”</p>
			<p>Allen laughed. “Any time you say, George.”</p>
			<p>Hugh and Winsor settled their accounts, then stood up, aching and weary, their muscles cramped from three hours of sitting and nervous tension. They said brief good nights, unlocked the door⁠—they heard Allen lock it behind them⁠—and left their disgruntled friends, glad to be out of the noisome odor of the room.</p>
			<p>“God, what luck!” Winsor exclaimed as they started down the hall. “I’m off Allen for good. That boy wins big pots too regularly and always loses the little ones. I bet he’s a cold-deck artist or something.”</p>
			<p>“He’s something all right,” Hugh agreed. “Cripes, I feel dirty and stinko. I feel as if I’d been in a den.”</p>
			<p>“You have been. Say, what’s that?” They had almost traversed the length of the long hall when Winsor stopped suddenly, taking Hugh by the arm. A door was open, and they could hear somebody reading.</p>
			<p>“What’s what?” Hugh asked, a little startled by the suddenness of Winsor’s question.</p>
			<p>“Listen. That poem, I’ve heard it somewhere before. What is it?”</p>
			<p>Hugh listened a moment and then said: “Oh, that’s the poem <abbr>Prof.</abbr> Blake read us the other day⁠—you know, ‘Marpessa.’ It’s about the shepherd, Apollo, and <em>Marpessa</em>. It’s great stuff. Listen.”</p>
			<p>They remained standing in the deserted hall, the voice coming clearly to them through the open doorway. “It’s Freddy Fowler,” Winsor whispered. “He can sure read.”</p>
			<p>The reading stopped, and they heard Fowler say to someone, presumably his roommate: “This is the part that I like best. Get it,” Then he read Idas’s plea to Marpessa:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘After such argument what can I plead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or what pale promise make? Yet since it is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In women to pity rather than to aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little I will speak. I love thee then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not only for thy body packed with sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all this world, that cup of brimming June,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That jar of violet wine set in the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That palest rose sweet in the night of life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor for that stirring bosom, all besieged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By drowsing lovers, or thy perilous hair;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor for that face that might indeed provoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invasion of old cities; no, nor all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy freshness stealing on me like strange sleep.’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Winsor’s hand tightened on Hugh’s arm, and the two boys stood almost rigid listening to the young voice, which was trembling with emotion, rich with passion:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Not only for this do I love thee, but</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because Infinity upon thee broods;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou are full of whispers and of shadows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou meanest what the sea has striven to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So long, and yearned up the cliffs to tell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou art what all the winds have uttered not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What the still night suggesteth to the heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy voice is like to music heard ere birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some spirit lute touched on a spirit sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy face remembered is from other worlds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It has been died for, though I know not when,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It has been sung of, though I know not where.’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“God,” Winsor whispered, “that’s beautiful.”</p>
			<p>“Hush. This is the best part.”</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘It has the strangeness of the luring West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of sad sea-horizons; beside thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am aware of other times and lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of birth far back, of lives in many stars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O beauty lone and like a candle clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this dark country of the world! Thou art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My woe, my early light, my music dying.’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Hugh and Winsor remained silent while the young voice went on reading Marpessa’s reply, her gentle refusal of the god and her proud acceptance, of the mortal. Finally they heard the last words:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“When she had spoken, Idas with one cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held her, and there was silence; while the god</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In anger disappeared. Then slowly they,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looking downward, and she gazing up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the evening green wandered away.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>When the voice paused, the poem done, the two boys walked slowly down the hall, down the steps, and out into the cool night air. Neither said a word until they were halfway across the campus. Then Winsor spoke softly:</p>
			<p>“God! Wasn’t that beautiful?”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—beautiful.” Hugh’s voice was hardly more than a whisper. “Beautiful.⁠ ⁠… It⁠—it⁠—oh, it makes me⁠—kinda ashamed.”</p>
			<p>“Me, too. Poker when we can have that! We’re awful fools, Hugh.”</p>
			<p>“Yes⁠—awful fools.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
